When we use libraries to handle
requests like React Query,
Is that where you'd
have to use use client?
>> Yes, you have to use client for
React query because React queries
hooks only work on client components.
So yeah, React query is not
something you would ever use for
a server component because you're
not keeping track of state.
React query seems like it's
a fetching library but
in reality it's a caching library, it's a
caching library, it's just because if you
think about it it doesn't do any fetching
you have to give it the fetcher.
You have to give React Query
the ability to fetch.
It just caches.
But you're not gonna do that on
the backend cuz it doesn't keep track of
state.
This is stateless.
Even the cache that is happening from
the fetch is being cached client side.
It's not being cached server side.
All the cache happens on the client.
So yeah, you couldn't use React Query
on the server because, one,
it's not needed cuz you're
not tracking rerenders.
And to it's using hooks and state,
which doesn't make sense on the server.
Mike you have a question?
>> Yes.
So with this API call is this
caching on the client side?
And every time still making the call,
however, deciding whether to rerender.
>> So great question
>> The data has changed or not?
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
So, the question was, is this being
cached on the client side, and
how does it know when to rerender,
and what's causing it to rerender?
So, yes,
it is being cached on the client side.
And the way the caching works by default,
is per segment, as in the route.
So, React is like for this route, for this
path, which in this case is just home,
slash Here's the stuff that's cached for
it.
Here's like the results.
And here's the data.
And because we didn't specify any
type of like caching mechanism here,
it's going to default to it.
Treating this data as what's called static
data as in this data is never going to
change.
So you are manually going to
have to tell me to update this.
I'm just going to keep sending back the
cache until you manually tell me because
you haven't given me any hints on whether
or not that this is a dynamic data fetch.
So you have to manually opt into that and
there's a lot of ways to do that.
You can create your own revalidation
strategy by doing something like
Let's see.
So you can say cache, like this,
and then, Is it revalidate?
No, not that.
Let me see.
I think I have it in here.
This is advanced one.
Yeah, we go.
I was right and wrong.
So you can say cache.
For instance, if you say cache no-store,
this means this is always
gonna be dynamic data, and I always want
it to be up to date, so never cash this.
So, anytime someone goes to this route,
always hit Reddit and
always give me the latest, right?
Do not store this anywhere,
that's what that means, right?
So, it gives you the ability
to control that cache.
But this is why I said it gets really
advanced and probably by default,
it's best to always use a default
until that one time where you're like,
why is this giving us back stale data and
then go fix that one thing versus
trying to think about it ahead of time.
I think you'll just over optimise
everything will just be like well.
Let's just give ourselves control
of everything and see what happens.
Yeah, by default, fetch will cache all the
results, which is great for static data,
but say for dynamic data,
you wanna do something like that, right?
And there's more options,
way more options.
I highly recommend checking out
the next stuff in the course.
For the updates of the full stack app
course that we're going to be working on,
we will be covering more
cache strategies and
how to actually do that in production and
why you might do it.
So, but there's a lot going on there.
Okay.
Any other questions on
fetching data on server?
Yes.
>> So I guess my question is, where does
the API now fit given the fact that we can
do pretty much all the stuff you'd wanna
do with API within our server components?
>> Exactly, yeah, so
API comes in here, client, right?
This is where the API comes in.
This is what we're gonna talk about.
So let me ask you a question.
If I went to a page,
I went to this page and
I loaded it up for the first time, right?
This is doing a get request.
It's getting data is putting on a screen,
would you expect to go to a page and
have that page?
Post something to a server?
Like that seems common?
Yeah, analytics aside and
all that weird stuff, but like,
you didn't perform an action, so
you're probably not mutating the database.
When you go to a website and
you're like, you didn't do anything.
You just went to the website.
Okay, so there.
And because when you do this, is when the
server components come, that kind of tells
you that there really isn't a good use
case for doing mutations on the server.
Like you almost don't need to,
you're almost only exclusively
getting data from a server.
I mean, if you are doing some mutations
on the server, it's probably not for the.
Effect of showing something on a page,
but maybe like a side effect of like,
I don't know, analytics or
you're tracking something.
But it's not because you
need to show on the page,
usually that's because you
need to get something, right?
It's not a good use case to do it there.
So really mutating is only for
the client, right?
So if you're on the client you don't have
access to async components on the client.
So now you have to rely on doing
mutations the old hard way, React query,
SWR, use effect,
the stuff that we already know.
And in that case, you do need an API,
cuz you have to go across the network
layer because you're on the client now.
So you have to go through the network,
talk to an API, get some information, and
then come back.
So that doesn't change.
So you still need an API if
you need to do a mutation,
which is only on the client, or
if your client needs to get information.
As in, someone clicked this button.
Therefore now I have to get this thing.
So I couldn't have made that a server
component, or maybe you could have.
There's probably a way you could have
do it, now that I'm thinking about it.
But like you can still use an API for
that.
React just thought of this, and
they have, where are my notes?
Here we go.
They have this thing called use.
They have a new hook,
it's literally just called use.
That's [LAUGH].
They got rid of the stuff after it,
and it's just called use now.
And the use hook allows you to basically,
it kind of works like React query or
SWR, whereas you can just
pass it to a fetcher and
it will do all the caching for
you and kind of figure it out, okay?
The problem with the used
hook is that it's not ready.
I've actually tried it.
It is not ready.
They say it's not ready and
they recommend you don't use it.
But I'm bringing it up because I think
it will be ready like by February.
I think it's going to be pretty
close when this thing is ready or
whenever they do it.
I think it's going to
be ready really soon.
So I'm bringing that up.
But the recommended approach right now is
just to use whatever you've been using,
SWR, React query, whatever your
favorite thing is to talk to an API.
Right, so that's how you would
do that on the client side.